GReF: A Unified Generative Framework for Efficient Reranking via Ordered Multi-token Prediction

GReF: A Unified Generative Framework for Efficient Reranking
via Ordered Multi-token Prediction
Zhijie Lin∗
Kuaishou Technology
Beijing, China
linzhijie@kuaishou.comZhuofeng Li∗
Shanghai University
Shanghai, China
zhuofengli12345@gmail.comChenglei Dai†
Kuaishou Technology
Beijing, China
daichenglei@kuaishou.com
Wentian Bao
Independent
Beijing, China
wb2328@columbia.eduShuai Lin
Kuaishou Technology
Beijing, China
shuailin97@gmail.comEnyun Yu
Independent
Beijing, China
yuenyun@126.com
Haoxiang Zhang
Shanghai University
Shanghai, China
Isaac_GHX@shu.edu.cnLiang Zhao
Emory University
Atlanta, GA, USA, USA
liang.zhao@emory.edu
Abstract
In a multi-stage recommendation system, reranking plays a cru-
cial role in modeling intra-list correlations among items. A key
challenge lies in exploring optimal sequences within the combina-
torial space of permutations. Recent research follows a two-stage
(generator-evaluator) paradigm, where a generator produces mul-
tiple feasible sequences, and an evaluator selects the best one. In
practice, the generator is typically implemented as an autoregres-
sive model. However, these two-stage methods face two main chal-
lenges. First, the separation of the generator and evaluator hinders
end-to-end training. Second, autoregressive generators suffer from
inference efficiency. In this work, we propose a Unified Generative
Efficient Reranking Framework (GReF) to address the two primary
challenges. Specifically, we introduce Gen-Reranker, an autoregres-
sive generator featuring a bidirectional encoder and a dynamic
autoregressive decoder to generate causal reranking sequences.
Subsequently, we pre-train Gen-Reranker on the item exposure or-
der for high-quality parameter initialization. To eliminate the need
for the evaluator while integrating sequence-level evaluation dur-
ing training for end-to-end optimization, we propose post-training
the model through Rerank-DPO. Moreover, for efficient autore-
gressive inference, we introduce ordered multi-token prediction
(OMTP), which trains Gen-Reranker to simultaneously generate
multiple future items while preserving their order, ensuring prac-
tical deployment in real-time recommender systems. Extensive
∗Both authors contributed equally to this research.
†Corresponding Author
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
Conference’17, Washington, DC, USA
©2025 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 978-x-xxxx-xxxx-x/YYYY/MM
https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.nnnnnnnoffline experiments demonstrate that GReF outperforms state-of-
the-art reranking methods while achieving latency that is nearly
comparable to non-autoregressive models. Additionally,GReF has
also been deployed in a real-world video app Kuaishou with
over 300 million daily active users, significantly improving
online recommendation quality.
CCS Concepts
•Information systems→Retrieval models and ranking.
Keywords
Re-ranking, Recommendation System, Autoregressive Models
ACM Reference Format:
Zhijie Lin, Zhuofeng Li, Chenglei Dai, Wentian Bao, Shuai Lin, Enyun
Yu, Haoxiang Zhang, and Liang Zhao. 2025. GReF: A Unified Generative
Framework for Efficient Reranking via Ordered Multi-token Prediction.
In.ACM, New York, NY, USA, 9 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.
nnnnnnn
1 INTRODUCTION
Multi-stage recommendation systems are widely used on platforms
like YouTube and Kuaishou. In the final stage, reranking refines the
top candidates by applying specific objectives to further improve
recommendation quality. Specifically, it takes the ranking list as
input and reorders it by modeling cross-item interactions within the
listwise context. Thus, the main challenge in reranking is exploring
the optimal sequence within the vast space of permutations.
Extensive research on reranking typically falls into two cate-
gories: one-stage and two-stage methods. One-stage methods [ 4,30]
take candidate items as input, estimate refined scores for each
within the permutation, and rerank them greedily based on these
scores. However, one-stage methods encounter an inherent contra-
diction [ 15,43]: the reranking operation modifies the permutation,
introducing different mutual influences between items compared
to the initial arrangement. Consequently, the refined score condi-
tioned on the initial permutation is considered implausible.arXiv:2510.25220v1  [cs.IR]  29 Oct 2025
Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA Zhijie Lin et al.
      00:10         00:30           01:30              02:30               05:10
Figure 1: User browsing behavior with causal dependencies
To tackle this challenge, two-stage methods [ 14,24,35,36] adopt
a generator-evaluator framework, where the generator produces
multiple candidate sequences and the evaluator selects the optimal
one based on an estimated listwise score. Compared to one-stage
methods that score items individually, two-stage approaches refine
the entire sequence using a sequence-level evaluator, better cap-
turing contextual dependencies and aligning with users’ overall
preferences.
In practice, the generator is typically implemented as an au-
toregressive model, such as Seq2Slate [ 7], to capture the causal
dependencies that are widely present in user browsing behavior.
As illustrated in Figure 1, a user who watchesMonkey King: Hero
is Backmay subsequently browse a related Chinese animated film
likeNezha, followed by additional content from the Nezha series,
eventually spending several minutes on the final video. Such widely
observed causal browsing patterns motivate the use of autoregres-
sive models, which are well-suited to capturing the temporal and
logical progression of user interactions. .
Challenges.While promising, these two-stage approaches face
two significant challenges in real-time industrial recommendation
systems. (1)The separation of the generator and evaluator severely
hinders end-to-end training.After the generator produces potential
sequences, conventional two-stage approaches rely on an addi-
tional evaluator to select those that best align with user preferences.
However, the separation impedes end-to-end training, resulting in a
sharp increase in system complexity, misaligned optimization objec-
tives, and limited generalization. (2)Autoregressive generators suffer
from inference efficiency.Autoregressive models adopt a sequential
approach to generate target sequences item by item, resulting in
slow inference as the time complexity increases linearly with the
sequence length.
Our Work.To address the challenges mentioned above, we
propose a UnifiedGenerative1EfficientRerankingFramework,
named GReF. Specifically, we propose Gen-Reranker, an autoregres-
sive model with a bidirectional encoder and a decoder that gener-
ates causal recommendation sequences through dynamic matching.
Then we pre-train Gen-Reranker on the large-scale unlabeled item
exposure order2from the recommendation system to efficiently ini-
tialize the model parameters. We then develop specialized strategies
to address key challenges of the separation of the generator and
evaluator and autoregressive inference efficiency:First, to unify
sequence-level evaluation during training for end-to-end op-
timization(challenge 1), we propose post-training Gen-Reranker
1In this paper, we primarily use the term "generative" to refer to autoregressive GPT-
style models [ 2,27,45], which are characterized by causal attention, next-token pre-
diction.
2The term "item exposure order" refers to the item sequence ultimately displayed to
the user by the recommendation system.throughRerank-DPO, which constructs pair-wise objectives to com-
pare user-preferred recommendation sequences with less-preferred
ones, thereby directly integrating sequence-level user preferences
during training without the need for an additional evaluator.Sec-
ond, to enable efficient autoregressive inference in real-time
industrial scenarios(challenge 2), we designOrdered Multi-token
Prediction (OMTP), which trains Gen-Reranker to simultaneously
generate multiple future items while preserving their order, thereby
substantially reducing the latency of autoregressive inference in
real-world recommendation systems.
To summarize, our contributions are listed as follows:
•We propose an end-to-end generative reranking framework
that integrates the Gen-Reranker model into a unified train-
ing pipeline. This design effectively unifies traditional two-
stage methods by bridging the gap between the generator
and the evaluator, enabling end-to-end optimization.
•We introduce OMTP, a novel method that simultaneously
generates multiple future items while preserving their order.
OMTP substantially improves the efficiency of autoregres-
sive generation and facilitates seamless deployment of GReF
in real-time recommendation systems.
•We conduct extensive offline experiments on both a public
dataset and a real-world industrial dataset from Kuaishou,
demonstrating that GReF outperforms state-of-the-art rerank-
ing methods while maintaining latency nearly comparable
to non-autoregressive models.Notably, GReF has been
deployed at Kuaishou, delivering significant improve-
ments across multiple metrics.
2 RELATED WORK
2.1 Reranking in Recommendation Systems
Reranking in recommendation aims to reorder an input item list
by modeling inter-item correlations to maximize user feedback.
Reranking models typically take the entire list (listwise context) as
input and output a reordered sequence. Existing methods can be
broadly divided into one-stage and two-stage approaches.
One-stage methods [ 4,7,29,30,43] treat reranking as a retrieval
task, where the top- 𝑘items are greedily selected based on scores
from a context-aware model. For example, PRM [ 30] and DLCM [ 4]
use Transformers [ 41] or RNNs [ 11] to model item dependencies and
predict click probabilities. However, modifying the item order alters
inter-item interactions, making the original scores less reliable.
Two-stage methods [ 14,15,24,35,36,43] adopt a generator-
evaluator framework: the generator produces candidate sequences,
and the evaluator selects the best one. Generators are typically
based on heuristics (e.g., beam search or item swapping) [ 14,36,43],
or generative models [ 7,15,18,24,35,47]. PRS [ 14] uses beam
search to generate candidates and scores them with a permutation-
wise model. PIER [ 36] filters top- 𝐾candidates using permutation-
level interest and employs attention modules for listwise CTR pre-
diction. DCDR [ 24] introduces a discrete diffusion model using
step-wise operations (e.g., swaps), conditioned on expected user
responses. NAR4Rec [ 35] adopts a non-autoregressive model [ 19]
with unlikelihood training and contrastive decoding to enhance
intra-list correlation. Building on this, NLGR incorporates neighbor
GReF: A Unified Generative Framework for Efficient Reranking via Ordered Multi-token Prediction Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA
lists to improve training. Despite their effectiveness, these two-
stage methods face challenges in end-to-end optimization due to
the separation between generation and evaluation.
2.2 Autoregressive Modeling
Autoregressive language models [ 3,5,6,9,10,13,22,23,27,31,32,
38–40] have laid a promising foundation for general-purpose AI. At
their core lies the autoregressive generation paradigm—predicting
the next token based on previous context—a simple yet power-
ful approach that scales effectively [ 20] and demonstrates strong
generalization and memorization abilities [3].
Autoregressive generation is also gaining popularity in reranking
tasks [ 7,16,44,46]. Seq2Slate [ 7] employs a seq2seq model [ 37] to se-
lect items step by step. More recently, LLM4PR [ 44] and LLM4Rerank
[16] leverage zero-shot LLMs with Chain-of-Thought prompting
for reranking. While effective, their high inference cost makes them
impractical for real-time recommendation.
To address these issues, we propose a novel autoregressive rerank-
ing generator equipped with an efficient training framework. Our
method effectively models item-level causality and user intent while
remaining suitable for real-time recommendation scenarios.
3 PRELIMINARY
3.1 Reranking Task
In multi-stage real-time recommendation systems, reranking plays
a crucial role in generating the ultimate list of recommended items
[26]. Given a set of candidates 𝑋={𝑥 1,𝑥2,...,𝑥𝑚}from the preced-
ing stage, the goal of reranking is to produce an ordered sequence
of recommendations 𝑌={𝑦 1,𝑦2,...,𝑦𝑛}that maximizes the likeli-
hood of favorable feedback from user 𝑢. Here,𝑚denotes the number
of candidates, and 𝑛represents the length of the recommended se-
quence. Typically, 𝑚is much larger than 𝑛, with𝑚ranging from
several tens to hundreds, while𝑛is usually less than 10.
3.2 Autoregressive Reranking
Given a set of candidate items denoted as 𝑋={𝑥 1,𝑥2,...,𝑥𝑚},
autoregressive reranking models factorize the joint probabilities
over possible generated sequences 𝑌={𝑦 0,𝑦1,...,𝑦𝑛+1}into the
product of conditional probabilities:
𝑝(𝑌|𝑋;𝜃)=𝑛+1Ö
𝑡=1𝑝(𝑦𝑡|𝑦0:𝑡−1,𝑥1:𝑚;𝜃),(1)
where𝑛represents the length of the recommended sequence. The
special tokens 𝑦0(e.g., [BOS] ) and𝑦𝑛+1(e.g., [EOS] ) signify the
beginning and end of the target sequence, respectively. In contrast
to natural language processing (NLP) tasks, where the sequence
length may vary, the sequence length in autoregressive reranking
is fixed.
In training, the objective is to optimize the following likelihood
using a cross-entropy loss at each timestep:
LAR=−log𝑝 AR(𝑌|𝑋;𝜃)=−𝑛+1∑︁
𝑡=1log𝑝(𝑦𝑡|𝑦0:𝑡−1,𝑥1:𝑚;𝜃).(2)
In inference, autoregressive reranking models generate the target
sequence sequentially through next-item prediction, effectivelymodeling the distribution of the target sequence. This property
makes them particularly well-suited for reranking tasks, especially
given the large combinatorial space of possible permutations.
3.3 Direct Preference Optimization (DPO)
DPO [ 33] is one of the most popular preference alignment methods
in the LLM post-training stage. Rather than explicitly learning a
reward model [ 28], DPO reparameterizes the reward function 𝑟by
leveraging a closed-form expression with the optimal policy:
𝑟(𝑥,𝑦)=𝛽log𝜋𝜃(𝑦|𝑥)
𝜋ref(𝑦|𝑥)+𝛽log𝑍(𝑥),(3)
where𝜋𝜃is the policy model, 𝜋refis the reference policy, typi-
cally the supervised fine-tuned (SFT) model, and 𝑍(𝑥) is the par-
tition function. By incorporating this reward formulation into
the Bradley-Terry (BT) ranking objective [ 8],𝑝(𝑦𝑤≻𝑦𝑙|𝑥)=
𝜎(𝑟(𝑥,𝑦𝑤)−𝑟(𝑥,𝑦𝑙)), DPO represents the probability of prefer-
ence data with the policy model, yielding the following objective:
−min
𝜋𝜃E(𝑥,𝑦𝑤,𝑦𝑙)∼D
log𝜎
𝛽log𝜋𝜃(𝑦𝑤|𝑥)
𝜋ref(𝑦𝑤|𝑥)−𝛽log𝜋𝜃(𝑦𝑙|𝑥)
𝜋ref(𝑦𝑙|𝑥)
,
(4)
where𝜋𝜃is the policy model, 𝜋refis the reference policy, and
(𝑥,𝑦𝑤,𝑦𝑙)represents preference pairs consisting of the prompt
𝑥, the winning response 𝑦𝑤, and the losing response 𝑦𝑙from the
preference datasetD.
4 GENERATIVE RERANKING FRAMEWORK
In this section, we provide a detailed introduction to our unified
generative framework for effective reranking illustrated in Fig-
ure 2. We first describe the structure of our Gen-Reranker model
in Section 4.1, which generates the causal reranking sequence in
an autoregressive manner. We then explore the training mecha-
nism of Gen-Reranker. As detailed in Section 4.2, we first pre-train
Gen-Reranker to achieve high-quality parameter initialization and
enhance generalization. Building on this, Section 4.3 introduces
Rerank-DPO, which further aligns the model with user preferences
and improves personalization. Finally, to enable efficient autore-
gressive generation, we introduce Ordered Multi-Token Prediction
(OMTP), which generates items simultaneously in a structured
order in Section 4.4.
4.1 Gen-Reranker
Autoregressive reranking generates recommendations item by item,
capturing complex causal dependencies for more personalized and
accurate recommendations. While promising, the effectiveness of
autoregressive reranking is hindered by the billion-scale and evolv-
ing item vocabularies3in recommendation systems, in contrast to
the relatively static 100K-scale vocabularies in language models [ 9].
To address this, we proposeGen-Reranker, which comprises two key
components: an encoder that leverages bidirectional attention to
extract embeddings for each candidate in current session, and a de-
coder that autoregressively generates the next-item representation
and then dynamically matches it with the candidate embeddings
3In autoregressive reranking, an item is equivalent to a token in NLP.
Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA Zhijie Lin et al.
Figure 2: An overview of GReF. GReF consists of Gen-Reranker, which integrates a bidirectional encoder and a dynamic
autoregressive decoder with dynamic matching (a1). Specifically, (a2) provides a detailed explanation of how Gen-Reranker
generates multiple future items simultaneously through OMTP. Additionally, GReF employs an effective training framework
that combines pre-training (b) and post-training (c).
to predict the next item, thereby eliminating the need to consider
billions of candidates across the entire recommendation system.
Candidate Items Embeddings.We employ a bidirectional
transformer [ 41] as encoder to generate target-aware embeddings
for the candidate items.
Considering a candidate item set 𝑋={𝑥 1,𝑥2,...,𝑥𝑚}, each
item𝑥𝑖is represented by item featurex 𝑖∈R𝑑. These features
are stacked into a matrixX ∈R𝑚×𝑑. Additionally, a position em-
beddingp 𝑖∈R𝑑is randomly initialized for each position 𝑖, forming
a matrixP∈R𝑚×𝑑. Note that this position order comes from the
previous ranking stage. The input representations are then obtained
by summing the item featuresXand their corresponding position
embeddingsP. Subsequently, we input them into the bidirectional
encoder. Finally, the final hidden stateZ ={z1,z2,..., z𝑚}serves as
the candidate embeddings, seamlessly integrating in-context item
information.
Dynamic Multi-Item Prediction.To achieve high efficiency
in real-time autoregressive generation, we proposedynamic multi-
item prediction. We replace the standard output layer over the full
vocabulary with a concatenation of embeddings corresponding to
the candidate items to be reranked. This allows the model to gener-
ate outputs solely from the in-context candidate set, eliminating theneed to compute over the entire billion-scale item pool in recom-
mendation systems. Moreover, instead of generating one item at a
time, we adopt multi-item prediction to enable parallel decoding of
multiple future items, significantly improving inference efficiency.
To be more specific, we replace the output layer’s weights with
candidate embeddingsZfrom encoder to create dynamic in-context
item vocabularies. During decoding, we compute similarity scores
between the decoder’s last hidden statehand the linear layer weight
Zto obtain logits and then apply the softmax function to compute
the next-item probabilities. The process is formulated as follows:
𝑝𝜃(𝑦𝑡|𝑦0:𝑡−1)=exp h⊤
𝑡z𝑦𝑡
Í𝑚
𝑖=0exp h⊤
𝑡z𝑖,(5)
whereh𝑡andz𝑦𝑡represent the final hidden state and item embed-
ding for target item𝑦 𝑡, respectively.
4.2 Pre-training on Recommender World
Knowledge
To train reranking models, traditional approaches [ 14,24,30,36]
typically rely on data with user feedback, such as clicks or likes.
While promising, user feedback in real-world recommendation
GReF: A Unified Generative Framework for Efficient Reranking via Ordered Multi-token Prediction Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA
systems is often extremely sparse [ 25]. Training solely on these
samples can lead to overfitting and hinder generalization.
To address this, similar to how LLMs are pre-trained on vast un-
labeled data from the internet, we propose pre-training the model
on the item exposure order from the recommendation system. This
approach is motivated by two key reasons. First, training data is
sufficient. Using item exposure order allows the training samples
to include all item data, rather than just the items that have been
interacted with by users. Second, learning from the item exposure
order provides the model with high-quality parameter initializa-
tion. A well-trained multi-stage recommendation system, such as
YouTube or Kuaishou, incorporates broader world knowledge be-
yond just user interactions, including expert rules and contextual
information. This means that pre-training on the item exposure
order generated from modern recommendation systems not only
allows the AR model to accurately and comprehensively capture
users’ interests but also enhances its generalization and robustness.
Specifically, given multiple candidate item sets X𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛={𝑋𝑖|𝑋𝑖=
{𝑥1,𝑥2,...,𝑥𝑚}}𝐾
𝑖=1, We can obtain the ordered exposure sequences
Y𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛={𝑌𝑖|𝑌𝑖={𝑦 1,𝑦2,...,𝑦𝑛}}𝐾
𝑖=1presented to the user from the
recommendation system, where Y𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 is a subset ofX𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛. Subse-
quently, we add a special [BOS] token at the beginning and a [EOS]
token at the end of each 𝑌𝑖to obtain target sequences Y𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛=
{𝑌𝑖|𝑌𝑖={𝑦 0,𝑦1,...,𝑦𝑛,𝑦𝑛+1}}𝐾
𝑖=1. Finally, we pre-train our autore-
gressive reranking model on Y𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 through cross-entropy loss as
described in Section 3.2:
L𝑝𝑟𝑒−𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 =−1
𝐾∑︁
Y𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛𝑛+1∑︁
𝑡=1log𝑝𝜃(𝑦𝑡|𝑦0,𝑦1,···,𝑦𝑡−1),(6)
where𝑝𝜃denotes an item distribution predictor with a model pa-
rameterized by𝜃.
4.3 Post-training on User Preferences
A key remaining challenge is how to further integrate user prefer-
ences into the model. Conventional two-stage approaches address
this by using the evaluator to select the sequences generated from
the generator that best align with user preferences. However, this
pattern hinders end-to-end training, leading to significantly in-
creased system complexity, misaligned optimization objectives, and
limited generalization.
To address this, inspired by DPO [ 34] in LLMs (with more de-
tails provided in Section 3.3), we proposeRerank-DPO, which first
constructs preference pairs based on item exposure order and user
feedback, and then forms a pairwise optimization objective from
these pairs, directly integrating sequence-level user preferences
into the model.
Specifically, given an exposure order 𝑌={𝑦 1,𝑦2,...,𝑦𝑛}, we
first assess an item’s personalization score based on two criteria: (1)
original exposure position and (2) user feedback. Utilizing these, our
objective is to construct winning and losing sequences that capture
both user and recommendation system preferences, ensuring that
the integration of user preferences does not interfere with the
knowledge acquired during the pre-training stage. Thus we can
define the personalization score of item𝑦 𝑖as:
𝑆𝑖=𝛼∗1
𝑃𝑖+𝛾∗𝑈𝑖,(7)where𝑃𝑖represents the position of 𝑦𝑖in the exposure order, and
𝑈𝑖denotes user feedback on 𝑦𝑖, such as clicks, with values of 0
or 1.𝛼and𝛾denote the balance hyper-parameter. Afterward, we
can rank items in the exposure order 𝑌according to the score to
get the personalized sequence 𝑌𝑤. For example, if the user clicks
on item𝑦2and𝑦5in𝑌, we can derive a personalized sequence
𝑌𝑤={𝑦 2,𝑦5,𝑦1,𝑦3,𝑦4,...,𝑦𝑛}. Finally, if𝑌𝑤differs from the original
exposure order, we treat 𝑌𝑤as the winning sequence and exposure
order, denoted as𝑌 𝑙, as the losing sequence, respectively.
Based on this, we can construct the preference dataset Y𝑝𝑜𝑠𝑡−𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 =
{(𝑌𝑤,𝑌𝑙)𝑖}𝐾
𝑖=1and post-train our pre-trained Gen-Reranker through
DPO to align with user preferences. The loss function is defined as
follows:
L𝑑𝑝𝑜=(8)
−min
𝜋𝜃E(𝑌𝑤,𝑌𝑙)∼Y𝑝𝑜𝑠𝑡−𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛
log𝜎
𝛽log𝜋𝜃(𝑌𝑤)
𝜋ref(𝑌𝑤)−𝛽log𝜋𝜃(𝑌𝑙)
𝜋ref(𝑌𝑙)
,
where𝜋𝜃is the pre-trained Gen-Reranker, 𝜋refis the frozen version,
and𝜋𝜃(𝑌𝑤),𝜋ref(𝑌𝑤),𝜋𝜃(𝑌𝑙), and𝜋ref(𝑌𝑙)represent the summed
log probabilities of sequences 𝑌𝑤and𝑌𝑙on𝜋𝜃and𝜋ref, respectively.
𝛽is the hyper-parameter.
4.4 Ordered Multi-token Prediction
To achieve high inference efficiency in real-time autoregressive
generation for real-world applications, we propose Ordered Multi-
token Prediction (OMTP), which trains Gen-Reranker with 𝑛output
heads to generate multiple future items in a single forward pass
while preserving their order.
Specifically, given the observed context 𝑦0:𝑡−1, we first encode
it into the latent representation ℎ0:𝑡−1 via the shared trunk Gen-
Reranker, which is then fed into the 𝑛output heads to generate
predictions for the future items. This design leads to the following
cross-entropy loss [17]:
L𝑛=−∑︁
𝑡log𝑝𝜃(𝑦𝑡:𝑡+𝑛−1|ℎ0:𝑡−1)·𝑝𝜃(ℎ0:𝑡−1|𝑦0:𝑡−1)
=−∑︁
𝑡𝑛−1∑︁
𝑖=0log𝑝𝜃(𝑦𝑡+𝑖|ℎ0:𝑡−1)·𝑝𝜃(ℎ0:𝑡−1|𝑦0:𝑡−1),(9)
where𝑝𝜃(𝑦𝑡+𝑖|𝑦0:𝑡−1)from head𝑖is computed through Eq. 5.
To further ensure that the multiple items generated by different
heads follow a sequential order, which is crucial for modeling user
behavior in short-video recommendation, we construct positive
and negative item pairs and apply a pairwise loss to capture their
relative order. Specifically, at step 𝑡, we enumerate permutations
of the outputs from 𝑛heads. Suppose a permutation 𝑌+receives
a higher score, measured by a scoring function 𝑆such as NDCG
based on user clicks. In that case, we treat it as a positive example
and another as negative 𝑌−, thereby guiding the model to learn the
correct item sequence:
L𝑜=−∑︁
𝑡,𝑆(𝑌+)>𝑆(𝑌−)log𝜎(𝑃𝜃(𝑌+|𝑦0:𝑡−1)−𝑃𝜃(𝑌−|𝑦0:𝑡−1)).(10)
The OMTP loss is defined as:
L𝑜𝑚𝑡𝑝=𝜆1∗L𝑛+𝜆2∗L𝑜,(11)
where𝜆 1and𝜆 2are hyper-parameters.
Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA Zhijie Lin et al.
4.5 Optimization and Inference
In the pre-training stage, we train Gen-Reranker on large-scale
unlabeled item exposure sequences optimized via the loss function
Lomtp . Subsequently, we post-train Gen-Reranker using Rerank-
DPO, supervised by the loss L𝑑𝑝𝑜 . During inference, OMTP pre-
dicts multiple items in parallel. To avoid duplicates, we apply a
binary mask at each step to exclude previously selected items, en-
abling efficient autoregressive decoding for real-time industrial
applications.
5 EXPERIMENTS
In this section, we present extensive offline experiments and online
A/B tests to validate the effectiveness of GReF. We first introduce the
baselines and implementation details in Section 5.1. In Section 5.2,
we compare GReF with existing baselines in terms of performance
and inference time. We also conduct ablation studies to assess the
contributions of different training stages and OMTP. To further
demonstrate the effectiveness of GReF in real-time recommendation
systems, we perform online A/B tests to evaluate our proposed
methods in Section 5.3.
5.1 Experiment settings
5.1.1 Datasets.To validate the effectiveness of our framework,
we conduct extensive experiments on both public and industrial
datasets:
•Avito4: A public dataset of user search logs from avito.ru,
containing over 53 million lists, 1.3 million users, and 36
million ads. Each sample is a search page with multiple ads.
Logs from the first 21 days are used for training and the last
7 days for testing. Each sequence has 5 ads. The task is to
predict item-wise click-through rates given list-wise inputs.
•Kuaishou: Collected from the Kuaishou short-video app
with over 300 million daily active users. Each sample is a
user request containing user features, 30 candidate items,
and 10 exposed items. The dataset includes 300 million users,
733 million items, and 252 million requests. The task for the
Kuaishou dataset is to predict whether an item is chosen to
be one of the exposed 10 items.
5.1.2 Baselines.We compare our model with 7 state-of-the-art
reranking methods. We select DNN and DCN as pointwise base-
lines, PRM as a one-stage listwise baseline, and Edge-Rerank, PIER,
Seq2Slate, and NAR4Rec as two-stage baselines. A brief overview
of these methods is provided below:
•DNN[ 12]: DNN a multi-layer perception for click-through
rate prediction.
•DCN[ 42]: DCN enhances DNNs with feature crossing at
each layer.
•PRM[ 30]: PRM uses self-attention to model item correla-
tions and ranks items by predicted scores.
•Edge-Rerank[ 18]: Edge-Rerank generates a context-aware
sequence using adaptive beam search applied to the esti-
mated scores.
•Seq2Slate[ 7]: Seq2Slate leverages pointer networks to select
the next item based on previously chosen ones.
4https://www.kaggle.com/c/avito-context-ad-clicks/data•PIER[ 36]: PIER filters top-k candidates via hashing, then
jointly trains a generator and evaluator for better permuta-
tions.
•NAR4Rec[ 35]: NAR4Rec combines a non-autoregressive
generator with unlikelihood training, contrastive decoding,
and a reranking evaluator.
5.1.3 Implementation Details.We implement our model in Tensor-
flow [ 1] and perform all experiments on four NVIDIA T4 GPU. We
configure the Bidirectional Encoder and Dynamic Autoregressive
Decoder in our Gen-Reranker with4stacked Transformer layers
each. For Rerank-DPO, we set the balance hyperparameters to 𝛼=1
and𝛾=1, treating clicks as user feedback with values of 0 or 1 while
adopting𝛽=0.1to control the scaling of the reward difference. For
OMTP, we set 𝑛=4to match the Kuaishou app’s UI, which displays
four videos per screen. Both 𝛼and𝛽are set to 1. During training,
we use Adam [ 21] with an initial learning rate 𝜂=5𝑒−6to update
the parameters, and the batch size is set to1 ,024. We first pre-train
Gen-Reranker and then post-train it using Rerank-DPO. We run our
model and other baseline methods five times with different random
seeds. Additionally, we either optimize the parameters or follow
the settings in the original papers to achieve the best performance
for the baseline methods.
5.1.4 Metrics.Following previous work [ 24,35,36], we evaluate
different methods in offline experiments using AUC and NDCG on
both the Avito and Kuaishou datasets.
5.2 Offline experiments
5.2.1 Performance comparison.Here we show the results of our
proposed method GReF. As shown in Table 1, GReF outperforms all
baseline methods on both the Avito and KuaiShou datasets across
key evaluation metrics. On the Avito dataset, GReF achieves the
highest AUC, about 1.5% higher than the next best model, and
the best NDCG, approximately 0.8% higher than PIER. Similarly,
on the KuaiShou dataset, GReF leads with an AUC, about 1.4%
higher than the best-performing baseline, and an NDCG, around
0.5% better than other methods. The consistent performance across
both datasets highlights GReF’s robustness and ability to enhance
recommendation quality, making it a highly effective approach in
practical scenarios.
5.2.2 Inference Time comparison.We evaluate GReF’s efficiency by
comparing inference times on the Kuaishou dataset (Table 2) using
a Tesla T4 16G GPU, measuring average single-sample latency.
Classical models like DNN and DCN are highly efficient due to
shallow architectures, while PRM, ERK, and PIER incur moderately
higher latency. The non-autoregressive NAR4Rec achieves 12.67 ms.
GReF achieves a strong balance between accuracy and efficiency,
outperforming all baselines in AUC and NDCG with an inference
time of 12.97 ms, close to NAR4Rec and over 4×faster than Seq2Slate
due to ordered multi-token prediction (OMTP). Without OMTP,
GReF’s step-by-step decoding results in the highest latency. OMTP
predicts multiple tokens per step, nearly halving forward passes
and latency.
This highlights OMTP’s effectiveness in accelerating autoregres-
sive inference, enabling GReF to combine generative expressiveness
with real-time deployability.
GReF: A Unified Generative Framework for Efficient Reranking via Ordered Multi-token Prediction Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA
Table 1: Comparison between GReF and baseline methods
on the Avito and KuaiShou datasets. The best results on each
dataset are highlighted in bold.
MethodAvito KuaiShou
AUC NDCG AUC NDCG
DNN 0.6614 0.6920 0.6866 0.7122
DCN 0.6623 0.7004 0.6879 0.7116
PRM 0.6881 0.7380 0.7119 0.7396
Edge-rerank 0.6953 0.7203 0.7143 0.7401
PIER 0.7109 0.7401 0.7191 0.7387
Seq2Slate 0.7034 0.7225 0.7165 0.7383
NAR4Rec 0.7234 0.7409 0.7254 0.7425
GReF 0.7384 0.7478 0.7387 0.7498
Table 2: Inference time comparison between GReF and base-
lines on the Kuaishou dataset. Note that ERK denotes Edge-
Rerank.
DNN DCN PRM ERK PIER NAR4Rec Seq2Slate GReF (w/o OMTP) GReF
Inf. Time (ms) 8.03 8.25 10.96 10.45 13.69 12.67 67.34 24.2912.97
5.2.3 Ablation Study of Training Stage.To investigate the contri-
butions of different training stages, we conduct the ablation studies
and present AUC and NDCG results in Table 3. We can find that
(1) Pre-training on exposure order provides the model with high-
quality parameter initialization, effectively capturing user interest
in many cases. (2) Post-training is essential for further integrating
user preferences, leading to an improvement of 0.63% in AUC and
0.45% in NDCG. (3) Relying solely on post-training leads to a signif-
icant degradation in model performance. One possible explanation
is that directly applying reinforcement learning-based DPO on user
feedback data in a cold-start scenario can easily result in training
instability and even collapse.
Table 3: Ablation studies of training stages and OMTP loss
in the pre-training stage on the Kuaishou dataset.
Training Stages OMTP Loss
Pre-training Post-training AUC NDCG L𝑛L𝑜 AUC NDCG
✓ 0.7361 0.7474 0.7324 0.7453
✓ 0.6832 0.7103 ✓ 0.7373 0.7484
✓ ✓ 0.7387 0.7498 ✓ ✓ 0.7387 0.7498
5.2.4 Ablation Study of OMTP.To further evaluate the effective-
ness of the OMTP objectives L𝑛(Eq.9) andL𝑜(Eq.10) during pre-
training, we conduct ablation studies, with results presented in
Table 3. Note that using either loss L𝑛andL𝑜alone corresponds to
single-head autoregressive pre-training as defined in Eq. 6, and all
models undergo post-training. We highlight the following findings:
(1) The model, which predicts multiple tokens in a single forward
pass and is trained using L𝑛alone, achieves performance compara-
ble to the full autoregressive framework. This demonstrates that the
MTP paradigm can serve as a strong alternative to traditional au-
toregressive methods. (2) Adding the ordered loss L𝑜on top ofL𝑛leads to further improvements, confirming that explicitly enforcing
a preference-consistent generation order significantly enhances
model performance. This indicates that OMTP not only greatly
accelerates inference compared to autoregressive approaches but
also maintains, or even improves, recommendation accuracy.
5.3 Online experiments
To further demonstrate our effectiveness, we conduct online A/B
experiments on the Kuaishou app with 8% of the entire production
traffic over one week. The online baseline is NAR4Rec [35].
5.3.1 Experimental Results.The experiments have been launched
on the system over one week, and the result is listed in Table 4.
GReF outperforms NAR4Rec by a large margin. To be more specific,
the Views increase by +0.33%, indicating better overall visibility
of recommended content. Long Views rise by +0.42% with a p-
value less than 0.01 and a Confidence Interval of [0.31%, 0.52%],
reflecting enhanced user engagement and prolonged content inter-
action. Likes show a +1.19% improvement, suggesting higher user
satisfaction and content appreciation. Most notably, Forwarding
(shares) increases by +2.98%, highlighting the model’s effectiveness
in encouraging content sharing and expanding its reach. Addition-
ally, Comments increase by +1.78%, indicating that users are more
inclined to engage in discussions and express their opinions on
the recommended content. This suggests that GReF not only im-
proves content visibility and engagement but also fosters a more
interactive and participatory user experience.
Table 4: The experimental results from Online A/B testing.
All values are the relative improvements of GReF. For the
online A/B test in Kuaishou, the 0.2% increase in views and
long view, and 0.5% in user interactions (like, forward, com-
ment) are very significant improvements in our system.
Views Long Views Likes Forwards Comments
+0.33% +0.42% +1.19% +2.98% +1.78%
6 Conclusion
In this paper, we provide an overview of the current formulation
and challenges associated with reranking in recommendation sys-
tems. We emphasize the significance of autoregressive reranking
and pioneer the deployment of the autoregressive reranking gener-
ator, GenReranker, in real-time recommendation systems. Building
on this, we propose GReF, a novel generative reranking frame-
work with end-to-end training. By seamlessly integrating the Gen-
Reranker model into an optimized pipeline, GReF not only boosts
the effectiveness of autoregressive reranking but also enables effi-
cient real-time deployment. To validate its effectiveness, we conduct
extensive offline and online A/B experiments, and the comparison
with state-of-the-art reranking methods demonstrates the superi-
ority of our approach. In the future, our future work will focus on
further enhance the capabilities of GReF.
7 GenAI Usage Disclosure
The authors affirm that no generative artificial intelligence (GenAI)
tools were used in the preparation of this manuscript. All text,
Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA Zhijie Lin et al.
figures, tables, code, and other scholarly contributions were cre-
ated solely by the authors without the assistance of generative AI
software. The authors take full responsibility for the originality,
accuracy, and integrity of the content.
References
[1]Martín Abadi, Paul Barham, Jianmin Chen, Zhifeng Chen, Andy Davis, Jeffrey
Dean, Matthieu Devin, Sanjay Ghemawat, Geoffrey Irving, Michael Isard, et al .
2016.{TensorFlow}: a system for{Large-Scale}machine learning. In12th
USENIX symposium on operating systems design and implementation (OSDI 16).
265–283.
[2]Marah Abdin, Sam Ade Jacobs, Ammar Ahmad Awan, Jyoti Aneja, Ahmed
Awadallah, Hany Awadalla, Nguyen Bach, Amit Bahree, Arash Bakhtiari, Harki-
rat Behl, et al .2024. Phi-3 technical report: A highly capable language model
locally on your phone.arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.14219(2024).
[3]Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama Ahmad, Ilge Akkaya, Floren-
cia Leoni Aleman, Diogo Almeida, Janko Altenschmidt, Sam Altman, Shyamal
Anadkat, et al .2023. Gpt-4 technical report.arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774
(2023).
[4]Qingyao Ai, Keping Bi, Jiafeng Guo, and W Bruce Croft. 2018. Learning a deep
listwise context model for ranking refinement. InThe 41st international ACM
SIGIR conference on research & development in information retrieval. 135–144.
[5]Rohan Anil, Andrew M Dai, Orhan Firat, Melvin Johnson, Dmitry Lepikhin,
Alexandre Passos, Siamak Shakeri, Emanuel Taropa, Paige Bailey, Zhifeng Chen,
et al. 2023. Palm 2 technical report.arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.10403(2023).
[6]Jinze Bai, Shuai Bai, Yunfei Chu, Zeyu Cui, Kai Dang, Xiaodong Deng, Yang Fan,
Wenbin Ge, Yu Han, Fei Huang, et al .2023. Qwen technical report.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2309.16609(2023).
[7]Irwan Bello, Sayali Kulkarni, Sagar Jain, Craig Boutilier, Ed Chi, Elad Eban,
Xiyang Luo, Alan Mackey, and Ofer Meshi. 2018. Seq2Slate: Re-ranking and slate
optimization with RNNs.arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.02019(2018).
[8]Ralph Allan Bradley and Milton E. Terry. 1952. Rank Analysis of Incomplete
Block Designs: I. The Method of Paired Comparisons.Biometrika39 (1952), 324.
[9]Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan,
Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda
Askell, et al. 2020. Language models are few-shot learners.NeurIPS(2020).
[10] Aakanksha Chowdhery, Sharan Narang, Jacob Devlin, Maarten Bosma, Gaurav
Mishra, Adam Roberts, Paul Barham, Hyung Won Chung, Charles Sutton, Se-
bastian Gehrmann, et al .2023. Palm: Scaling language modeling with pathways.
Journal of Machine Learning Research24, 240 (2023), 1–113.
[11] Junyoung Chung, Caglar Gulcehre, KyungHyun Cho, and Yoshua Bengio. 2014.
Empirical evaluation of gated recurrent neural networks on sequence modeling.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.3555(2014).
[12] Paul Covington, Jay Adams, and Emre Sargin. 2016. Deep neural networks
for youtube recommendations. InProceedings of the 10th ACM conference on
recommender systems. 191–198.
[13] Abhimanyu Dubey, Abhinav Jauhri, Abhinav Pandey, Abhishek Kadian, Ahmad
Al-Dahle, Aiesha Letman, Akhil Mathur, Alan Schelten, Amy Yang, Angela Fan,
et al. 2024. The llama 3 herd of models.arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.21783(2024).
[14] Yufei Feng, Yu Gong, Fei Sun, Junfeng Ge, and Wenwu Ou. 2021. Revisit recom-
mender system in the permutation prospective.arXiv preprint arXiv:2102.12057
(2021).
[15] Yufei Feng, Binbin Hu, Yu Gong, Fei Sun, Qingwen Liu, and Wenwu Ou. 2021.
GRN: Generative Rerank Network for Context-wise Recommendation.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2104.00860(2021).
[16] Jingtong Gao, Bo Chen, Xiangyu Zhao, Weiwen Liu, Xiangyang Li, Yichao Wang,
Wanyu Wang, Huifeng Guo, and Ruiming Tang. [n. d.]. LLM4Rerank: LLM-based
Auto-Reranking Framework for Recommendations. InTHE WEB CONFERENCE
2025.
[17] Fabian Gloeckle, Badr Youbi Idrissi, Baptiste Rozière, David Lopez-Paz, and
Gabriel Synnaeve. 2024. Better & faster large language models via multi-token
prediction.arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.19737(2024).
[18] Xudong Gong, Qinlin Feng, Yuan Zhang, Jiangling Qin, Weijie Ding, Biao Li, Peng
Jiang, and Kun Gai. 2022. Real-time Short Video Recommendation on Mobile
Devices. InProceedings of the 31st ACM International Conference on Information
& Knowledge Management. 3103–3112.
[19] Jiatao Gu, James Bradbury, Caiming Xiong, Victor OK Li, and Richard Socher. 2017.
Non-autoregressive neural machine translation.arXiv preprint arXiv:1711.02281
(2017).
[20] Jared Kaplan, Sam McCandlish, Tom Henighan, Tom B Brown, Benjamin Chess,
Rewon Child, Scott Gray, Alec Radford, Jeffrey Wu, and Dario Amodei. 2020.
Scaling laws for neural language models.arXiv preprint arXiv:2001.08361(2020).
[21] Diederik P Kingma and Jimmy Ba. 2015. Adam: A method for stochastic opti-
mization. InICLR.[22] Shuai Lin, Wentao Wang, Zichao Yang, Xiaodan Liang, Frank F Xu, Eric Xing, and
Zhiting Hu. 2019. Data-to-text generation with style imitation.arXiv preprint
arXiv:1901.09501(2019).
[23] Shuai Lin, Pan Zhou, Xiaodan Liang, Jianheng Tang, Ruihui Zhao, Ziliang Chen,
and Liang Lin. 2021. Graph-evolving meta-learning for low-resource medical
dialogue generation. Inproceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial intelligence,
Vol. 35. 13362–13370.
[24] Xiao Lin, Xiaokai Chen, Chenyang Wang, Hantao Shu, Linfeng Song, Biao Li,
et al.2023. Discrete Conditional Diffusion for Reranking in Recommendation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.06982(2023).
[25] Siyi Liu and Yujia Zheng. 2020. Long-tail session-based recommendation. In
Proceedings of the 14th ACM conference on recommender systems. 509–514.
[26] Weiwen Liu, Yunjia Xi, Jiarui Qin, Fei Sun, Bo Chen, Weinan Zhang, Rui Zhang,
and Ruiming Tang. 2022. Neural re-ranking in multi-stage recommender systems:
A review.arXiv preprint arXiv:2202.06602(2022).
[27] OpenAI. 2023. GPT-4 technical report.arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774(2023).
[28] Long Ouyang, Jeff Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida, Carroll L. Wainwright, Pamela
Mishkin, Chong Zhang, Sandhini Agarwal, Katarina Slama, Alex Ray, John Schul-
man, Jacob Hilton, Fraser Kelton, Luke E. Miller, Maddie Simens, Amanda Askell,
Peter Welinder, Paul Francis Christiano, Jan Leike, and Ryan J. Lowe. 2022. Train-
ing language models to follow instructions with human feedback. InNeurIPS.
[29] Liang Pang, Jun Xu, Qingyao Ai, Yanyan Lan, Xueqi Cheng, and Jirong Wen.
2020. Setrank: Learning a permutation-invariant ranking model for information
retrieval. InProceedings of the 43rd international ACM SIGIR conference on research
and development in information retrieval. 499–508.
[30] Changhua Pei, Yi Zhang, Yongfeng Zhang, Fei Sun, Xiao Lin, Hanxiao Sun, Jian
Wu, Peng Jiang, Junfeng Ge, Wenwu Ou, et al .2019. Personalized re-ranking
for recommendation. InProceedings of the 13th ACM conference on recommender
systems. 3–11.
[31] Alec Radford. 2018. Improving language understanding by generative pre-
training. (2018).
[32] Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya Ramesh, Gabriel Goh,
Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark,
Gretchen Krueger, and Ilya Sutskever. 2021. Learning transferable visual models
from natural language supervision. InICML.
[33] Rafael Rafailov, Archit Sharma, Eric Mitchell, Stefano Ermon, Christopher D.
Manning, and Chelsea Finn. 2023. Direct Preference Optimization: Your Language
Model is Secretly a Reward Model. InNeurIPS.
[34] Rafael Rafailov, Archit Sharma, Eric Mitchell, Christopher D Manning, Stefano
Ermon, and Chelsea Finn. 2024. Direct preference optimization: Your language
model is secretly a reward model.Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems36 (2024).
[35] Yuxin Ren, Qiya Yang, Yichun Wu, Wei Xu, Yalong Wang, and Zhiqiang Zhang.
2024. Non-autoregressive generative models for reranking recommendation. In
Proceedings of the 30th ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and
Data Mining. 5625–5634.
[36] Xiaowen Shi, Fan Yang, Ze Wang, Xiaoxu Wu, Muzhi Guan, Guogang Liao, Wang
Yongkang, Xingxing Wang, and Dong Wang. 2023. PIER: Permutation-Level
Interest-Based End-to-End Re-ranking Framework in E-commerce. InProceedings
of the 29th ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining.
4823–4831.
[37] I Sutskever. 2014. Sequence to Sequence Learning with Neural Networks.arXiv
preprint arXiv:1409.3215(2014).
[38] Gemini Team, Rohan Anil, Sebastian Borgeaud, Yonghui Wu, Jean-Baptiste
Alayrac, Jiahui Yu, Radu Soricut, Johan Schalkwyk, Andrew M Dai, Anja Hauth,
et al.2023. Gemini: a family of highly capable multimodal models.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2312.11805(2023).
[39] Hugo Touvron, Thibaut Lavril, Gautier Izacard, Xavier Martinet, Marie-Anne
Lachaux, Timothée Lacroix, Baptiste Rozière, Naman Goyal, Eric Hambro, Faisal
Azhar, et al .2023. Llama: Open and efficient foundation language models.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2302.13971(2023).
[40] Hugo Touvron, Louis Martin, Kevin Stone, Peter Albert, Amjad Almahairi, Yas-
mine Babaei, Nikolay Bashlykov, Soumya Batra, Prajjwal Bhargava, Shruti Bhos-
ale, et al .2023. Llama 2: Open foundation and fine-tuned chat models.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2307.09288(2023).
[41] A Vaswani. 2017. Attention is all you need.Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems(2017).
[42] Ruoxi Wang, Bin Fu, Gang Fu, and Mingliang Wang. 2017. Deep & cross network
for ad click predictions. InProceedings of the ADKDD’17. 1–7.
[43] Yunjia Xi, Weiwen Liu, Xinyi Dai, Ruiming Tang, Weinan Zhang, Qing Liu, Xi-
uqiang He, and Yong Yu. 2021. Context-aware reranking with utility maximization
for recommendation.arXiv preprint arXiv:2110.09059(2021).
[44] Yang Yan, Yihao Wang, Chi Zhang, Wenyuan Hou, Kang Pan, Xingkai Ren,
Zelun Wu, Zhixin Zhai, Enyun Yu, Wenwu Ou, et al .2024. LLM4PR: Improving
Post-Ranking in Search Engine with Large Language Models.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2411.01178(2024).
[45] An Yang, Baosong Yang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chang Zhou, Cheng-
peng Li, Chengyuan Li, Dayiheng Liu, Fei Huang, et al .2024. Qwen2 technical
GReF: A Unified Generative Framework for Efficient Reranking via Ordered Multi-token Prediction Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA
report.arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.10671(2024).
[46] Haobo Zhang, Qiannan Zhu, and Zhicheng Dou. 2025. Enhancing Reranking for
Recommendation with LLMs through User Preference Retrieval. InProceedings
of the 31st International Conference on Computational Linguistics. 658–671.[47] Tao Zhuang, Wenwu Ou, and Zhirong Wang. 2018. Globally optimized mutual
influence aware ranking in e-commerce search.arXiv preprint arXiv:1805.08524
(2018).